# Site: [ipbee.github.io/blockchain](https://ipbee.github.io/blockchain)

# Height Level Solution Description

We are using Smart Contract responsible for registering document hashes in Ethereum compatible blockchains. 
Smart Contract source code also available in [this repository](https://github.com/IPBee/blockchain/blob/master/smart-contracts/contracts/Originstamp.sol). 
It is written in [Solidity programming language](https://soliditylang.org) created especially for Ethereum Virtual Machine. 

Smart Contract has read and write methods. Write methods put and update data in blockchain. 
You can imagine it like global database with free read access and paid write capability. 
Write commission depends on blockchain and amount of writing data. [Polygon blockchain](https://polygon.technology) 
for now one of the cheapest Ethereum compatible blockchain.

To write Polygon blockchain we need to have account in Polygon network and [MATIC](https://polygon.technology/matic-token) 
coins to pay commission fees.

The one of the simplest way to create account is to use [Metamask wallet](https://metamask.io) available as 
[Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/metamask/nkbihfbeogaeaoehlefnkodbefgpgknn?hl=en) and Firefox extension.

### Document hash

Generated by ...

You always need to use 0x... format of hashes for this Smart Contract methods. Example: `0xe4142e56e449251d27732d585248d507994e400fc19184ce6158f1263cdc9e11`

### Read methods

* `docRegistrationTime` -- get [unix timestamp][4] of document hash registration 
* `newVersions` -- get new version of document hash if exists
* `validUntil` -- get expiration time as [unix timestamp][4]

You can use [Polygonscan][3] to try these methods.

### Write methods

* `register` -- register single document hash. Emits `Registered` event.
* `registerMultiply` -- register array of document hashes. Emits `Registered` event for each document.
* `registerNewVersion` -- register new version of document. To call it you need to know old and new document hashes. 
Emits `Registered` and `NewVersionRegistered` events.
* `registerNewVersionMultiply` -- implement `registerNewVersion` logic for each of pair of input data 

Only creator of contract can use write methods. You can use [Polygonscan][2] to try these methods. You need to click 
`Connect to Web3` link to connect Metamask browser 
extension, and you need to have `MATIC` tokens for commission fee. Usual commission about `0.0014 MATIC` ~ `$0.003` by current price.

### Events (Logs)

* `Registered` -- emitted for each registered document hash
* `NewVersionRegistered` -- emitted in case of `registerNewVersion` method used

[Test Smart Contract Address is 0x3a60d9d5f70ad0b56d602e71fc1653d11fce5d89][1]

### Etherscan

For using read or write methods usually we need to use own Polygon Node. But also we can use third party APIs. 
One of the most popular Polygon blockchain explorer tool is [Polygonscan](https://polygonscan.com). This tool allows 
studying blockchain transactions, smart contracts, event and lot more. Also, Polygonscan allow calling Smart Contract 
read/write methods. To use write methods you need to connect Metamask Wallet with owner (Smart Contract creater) account.

# Documents validity proving solution

## Proving by transaction logs

Each Smart Contract write method usage create a transaction which is publicly accessible. All our write methods emit
events. All emitted events written in transaction logs section. To prove what some document hash were published some 
time ago we need to prove what transaction with `Registered` event with this particular document hash was published in 
particular time. 

Example: https://polygonscan.com/tx/0x3b18c87703bd71721e419cd62843227dfe586380adfc6c40c5c511280bb3233b#eventlog

Let's study first event in this example. Most confusing part it is `topics` array. First element in topic array is 
`0x10906fae603eebfac53ddc0f103bee8a044dd7643c425c7a90f921dfa15ef62c` -- identifier of this particular event. It is hash 
computed from event signature `event Registered(bytes32 indexed)`. Second topic equal to first event parameter which is `docHash`.
So second topic equals our document has.

So to prove document has were published we need to fetch topics with `topic0` equals `0x10906fae603eebfac53ddc0f103bee8a044dd7643c425c7a90f921dfa15ef62c`
and `topic1` equals our document hash. And check transaction timestamp to get date of document publishing.

For fetching events from Polygon blockchain we are using [Polygonscan Event Log API](https://docs.polygonscan.com/api-endpoints/logs).
You can find fetching logic implementation in [js/app.js](https://github.com/IPBee/blockchain/blob/master/js/app.js) file

## Proving by calling Smart Contract

While document registration we are not just emitting Registered event, but also saving time of registration to onchain Smart Contract register `docRegistrationTime`.
Anyone can check this register at any time without commission fee by calling Smart Contract read method `docRegistrationTime` 
passing document hash as argument. We can use [Polygonscan][3] to call this method.

# Smart Contract publishing

To publish Smart Contract we need to have Polygon account. You can create your own or import test account.

## Import Polygon Network

Add Polygon Network using [instruction](https://docs.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask)

## Import Test Account

Open Metamask and follow [account import instructions](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015489331-How-to-import-an-Account). 
Private key for test account: `f76172e35f6da2b1f7e187bdc07fbf4dcd43c28fdc4cfcb1cbdbb4b3ce3451ea`

Test account address: `0x75ec25551e68E5827C40fC26382aa7e57C2A3380`

This account holds some small amount of `MATIC` for fees.

## Compile & Publish

1. Open [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org)
2. Create file `Originstamp.sol` in `contracts` folder
3. Paste content of [Originstamp.sol][5]
4. Switch to `Solidity Compiler` tab on left panel
5. Choose Compiler `0.8.7+commit.e28d00a7`
6. Press `Compile Originstamp.sol` button
7. Switch to `Deploy & run transactions` tab
8. Choose environment `Injected Web3`
9. Make sure Metamask Network is `Polygon Mainnet` and connected account correct
10. Account address should be equal your account address, `0x75e...A3380` for test account
11. Press `Deploy` button
12. Accept transaction in Metamask
13. After some seconds you will receive notification transaction finished
14. You can press this notification or go to `Activity` tab in Metamask and click `Contract Deployment` and click `View on block exploer`
15. You should be navigated to Polygonscan.com site. For example: https://polygonscan.com/tx/0xff9895c66e4a3eef3207dd1170ff2e1aa57a4684d938f9a1c6f304edd79ddc3e

## Add sources to Polygonscan

To use newly published contract methods in Polygonscan site we need to publish source of our Smart Contract.

1. Naviogate to newly created Smart Contract. For example: https://polygonscan.com/address/0x3a60d9d5f70ad0b56d602e71fc1653d11fce5d89
2. Switch to tab `Contract`
3. Click `Verify and Publish`
4. Set Compiler Type to `Solidity (Single file)`
5. Set Compiler Version to `0.8.7+commit.e28d00a7`
6. Set Licence ???
7. Click `Continue`
8. Copy content of [Originstamp.sol][5] and past it in text field
9. Click `Verify and Publish`
10. You should see message `Successfully generated ByteCode and ABI for Contract Address`

# Automatic testing

1. Download or clone this repository
2. Switch to smart-contracts folder `cd smart-contracts`
3. Install [node js](https://nodejs.org)
4. Install all dependency `npm install`
5. Run tests `npx hardhat test`

# Use-cases for testing

## Environment preparations

Install [Metamask Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/metamask/nkbihfbeogaeaoehlefnkodbefgpgknn?hl=en). 
We need it only for use Smart Contract write methods


## Publish/check single document

### Publish

1. Open Smart Contract write methods on [Polygonscan][2]
2. Click `Connect to Web3` to connect to Metamask wallet
3. Use `register` method with document hash as first parameter and valid until as [unix timestamp][4] (`0` means unlimited) as second parameter. 
   Document hash example: `0xe4142e56e449251d27732d585248d507994e400fc19184ce6158f1263cdc9e11`
4. Press `Write` button
5. Approve transaction in Metamask
6. Press `View your transaction` button and wait until transaction finish. Sometimes you need to reload browser page after some seconds
7. Check transaction fee, should be less than `$0.01`
8. Switch to Logs tab
9. You should see `Registered` event with document hash in Topic 1 and valid until in Topic 2

### Check on Polygonscan

1. Open Smart Contract read methods on [Polygonscan][3]
2. Use `docRegistrationTime` method with document hash as parameter. Document hash example: `0xe4142e56e449251d27732d585248d507994e400fc19184ce6158f1263cdc9e11`
3. Press `Query` button
4. Convert result unix timestamp to human readable format using https://www.unixtimestamp.com
5. Use `newVersions` method with same document hash as parameter
6. Response should be zero: `bytes32 :  0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000`
7. Use `validUntil` method with same document hash as parameter
8. Response should be equal `_validUntil` parameter used while publishing 

### Check on this site

1. Open site https://ipbee.github.io/blockchain
2. Insert document hash
3. Compare result with Polygonscan data

## Publish a list of documents

### Publish

1. Open Smart Contract write methods on [Polygonscan][2]
2. Click `Connect to Web3` to connect to Metamask wallet
3. Use `registerMultiply` method with list of document hashes and valid until times list. Parameter example (two hashes): 
   `[0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001,0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002]` and `[0,0]`
4. Press `Write` button
5. Approve transaction in Metamask
6. Press `View your transaction` button and wait until transaction finish. Sometimes you need to reload browser page after some seconds
7. Switch to Logs tab
8. You should see two `Registered` events. One with `0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001` in Topic 1
   and second with `0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002` in Topic 1

### Check

Same logic like for single document for each of document in list.

## Publish/check new version of document

### Publish

1. Open Smart Contract write methods on [Polygonscan][2]
2. Click `Connect to Web3` to connect to Metamask wallet
3. Use `registerNewVersion` method 
4. Fill `_newDocHash` parameter input with new document hash
5. Fill `_expiredDocHash` parameter input with expired document hash
5. Fill `_validUntil` parameter input with [unix timestamp][4]
6. Press `Write` button
7. Approve transaction in Metamask
8. Press `View your transaction` button and wait until transaction finish. Sometimes you need to reload browser page after some seconds
9. Switch to Logs tab
10. You should see `Registered` and `NewVersionRegistered` events 
11. `Registered` event should have new document hash in Topic 1 and valid until value in Topic 2
12. `NewVersionRegistered` event should have new document hash in Topic 1 and old document has on Topic 2

### Check

Same logic like for single document for old and new document hashes. But for old document hash response of `newVersions` 
method should equal to new document hash.

## Publish/check new version of already expired doc

## Try to publish already existed document as single and as list

## Try to publish from non owner account

# Bitrix tasks

[1]: https://polygonscan.com/address/0x3a60d9d5f70ad0b56d602e71fc1653d11fce5d89#code
[2]: https://polygonscan.com/address/0x3a60d9d5f70ad0b56d602e71fc1653d11fce5d89#writeContract
[3]: https://polygonscan.com/address/0x3a60d9d5f70ad0b56d602e71fc1653d11fce5d89#readContract
[4]: https://www.unixtimestamp.com
[5]: https://github.com/IPBee/blockchain/blob/master/smart-contracts/contracts/Originstamp.sol
